as the day wears on
deep in the heart of this venezuelan
mountain
george's mission into perpetual darkness
continues
up on the surface it takes special
technology to uncover the secrets of the
dark
down here for george it is old-fashioned
exploration
they have reached a deeper area of river
and the caving team are keen to show
george what they think
is a very significant find
what we're hunting for is this little
pale
catfish
the catfish would almost certainly be a
new species
and the only fish to be found anywhere
in these mountains
why is it here and how does it survive
in the dark
george have you got one
well done guys oh wow look at that
well here it is that is fantastic
look at it
i'm holding in my hand the only
species of fish that's been found
anywhere on any tipoi
it only lives inside this cave stream
and it just found its way into the cave
system
this is a truly extraordinary discovery
with no other fish for miles around
how its ancestors found their way into
this cave
is a complete mystery
isolated in the dark for millennia
these catfish have started to lose the
skin pigment that camouflages them
without light it has no use
generation by generation these fish
are adapting to the dark
i'm not sure if it's completely blind
there are eyes there but a million years
from now
it will be completely blind because it's
evolving in
the total darkness of this cave and so
eyes have no value at all for it
instead of eyes this fish relies on
other senses
the large barbels around its mouth are
sensory organs
similar to the whiskers of a cat its
skin
is also covered in taste buds meaning
that this
fish can taste its way to a meal in the
dark
there's heaps of food material that gets
washed in
from the top with all the rains sil
algae
bits and pieces and eventually just ends
up here it doesn't have to go anywhere
else all the food
arrives on us on its patch
well it's time for our little star
to go back
into the wild
[Music]
[Applause]
beautiful
[Music]
[Applause]
you